We concisely review the history, physics and significance of coherent states.

Remarks on the life and work of Paul Erdos.

We briefly review the history of Mach's principle and discuss its
significance in the light of modern physics.

The electrocardiogram (ECG) is a ubiquitous diagnostic modality.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) applied towards ECG analysis require large
sample sizes, and transfer learning approaches result in suboptimal performance
when pre-training is done on natural images. We leveraged masked image modeling
to create the first vision-based transformer model, HeartBEiT, for
electrocardiogram waveform analysis. We pre-trained this model on 8.5 million
ECGs and then compared performance vs. standard CNN architectures for diagnosis
of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, low left ventricular ejection fraction and ST
elevation myocardial infarction using differing training sample sizes and
independent validation datasets. We show that HeartBEiT has significantly
higher performance at lower sample sizes compared to other models. Finally, we
also show that HeartBEiT improves explainability of diagnosis by highlighting
biologically relevant regions of the EKG vs. standard CNNs. Thus, we present
the first vision-based waveform transformer that can be used to develop
specialized models for ECG analysis especially at low sample sizes.

In the Forum section of the November, 1993 Notices of the American
Mathematical Society, John Franks discussed the electronic journal of the
future. Since then, the New York Journal of Mathematics, the first electronic
general mathematics journal, has begun publication. In this article, we explore
the issues of electronic journal publishing in the context of this new project.
We also discuss future developments.

We outline reasoning that led to the current theory of quasars and look at
George Contopoulos's place in the long history of the N-body problem. Following
Newton we find new exactly soluble N-body problems with multibody forces and
give a strange eternally pulsating system that in its other degrees of freedom
reaches statistical equilibrium.

The constant mean extrinsic curvature on a spacelike slice may constitute a
physically preferred time coordinate, `York time'. One line of enquiry to probe
this idea is to understand processes in our cosmological history in terms of
York time. Following a review of the theoretical motivations, we focus on
slow-roll inflation and the freezing and Hubble re-entry of cosmological
perturbations. We show how the mathematical account of these processes is
distinct from the conventional account in terms of standard cosmological or
conformal time. We also consider the cosmological York-timeline more broadly
and contrast it with the conventional cosmological timeline.

In 1974, Robert Caro published The Power Broker, a critical biography of
Robert Moses's dictatorial tenure as the "master builder" of mid-century New
York. Moses profoundly transformed New York's urban fabric and transportation
system, producing the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel, the Verrazano Narrows Bridge,
the Westside Highway, the Cross-Bronx Expressway, the Lincoln Center, the UN
headquarters, Shea Stadium, Jones Beach State Park and many other projects.
However, The Power Broker did lasting damage to his public image and today he
remains one of the most controversial figures in city planning history. On
August 26, 1974, Moses issued a turgid 23-page statement denouncing Caro's work
as "full of mistakes, unsupported charges, nasty baseless personalities, and
random haymakers." Moses's original typewritten statement survives today as a
grainy photocopy in the New York City Parks Department archive. To better
preserve and disseminate it, I have extracted and transcribed its text using
optical character recognition and edited the result to correct errors. Here I
compile my transcription of Moses's statement, alongside Caro's reply to it.

Despite the wealth of single-cell multi-omics data, it remains challenging to
predict the consequences of novel genetic and chemical perturbations in the
human body. It requires knowledge of molecular interactions at all biological
levels, encompassing disease models and humans. Current machine learning
methods primarily establish statistical correlations between genotypes and
phenotypes but struggle to identify physiologically significant causal factors,
limiting their predictive power. Key challenges in predictive modeling include
scarcity of labeled data, generalization across different domains, and
disentangling causation from correlation. In light of recent advances in
multi-omics data integration, we propose a new artificial intelligence
(AI)-powered biology-inspired multi-scale modeling framework to tackle these
issues. This framework will integrate multi-omics data across biological
levels, organism hierarchies, and species to predict causal
genotype-environment-phenotype relationships under various conditions. AI
models inspired by biology may identify novel molecular targets, biomarkers,
pharmaceutical agents, and personalized medicines for presently unmet medical
needs.

This is the first part of an oral history interview on the lifelong
involvement of Joel Lebowitz in the development of statistical mechanics. Here
the covered topics include the formative years, which overlapped the tragic
period of Nazi power and World War II in Europe, the emigration to the United
States in 1946 and the schooling there. It also includes the beginnings and
early scientific works with Peter Bergmann, Oliver Penrose and many others. The
second part will appear in a forthcoming issue of European Physical Journal H.

Fashion is a perpetual topic in human social life, and the mass has the
penchant to emulate what large city residents and celebrities wear. Undeniably,
New York City is such a bellwether large city with all kinds of fashion
leadership. Consequently, to study what the fashion trends are during this
year, it is very helpful to learn the fashion trends of New York City.
Discovering fashion trends in New York City could boost many applications such
as clothing recommendation and advertising. Does the fashion trend in the New
York Fashion Show actually influence the clothing styles on the public? To
answer this question, we design a novel system that consists of three major
components: (1) constructing a large dataset from the New York Fashion Shows
and New York street chic in order to understand the likely clothing fashion
trends in New York, (2) utilizing a learning-based approach to discover fashion
attributes as the representative characteristics of fashion trends, and (3)
comparing the analysis results from the New York Fashion Shows and street-chic
images to verify whether the fashion shows have actual influence on the people
in New York City. Through the preliminary experiments over a large clothing
dataset, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed system, and obtain
useful insights on fashion trends and fashion influence.

The article is dedicated to recalling the life and mathematics of Louis
Nirenberg, a distinguished Canadian mathematician who recently died in New
York, where he lived. An emblematic figure of Analysis and Partial Differential
Equations in the last century, he was awarded the Abel Prize in 2015. From his
watchtower at the Courant Institute in New York, he was for many years a global
teacher and master. He was a good friend of Spain.

Conceptual abstraction and analogy-making are key abilities underlying
humans' abilities to learn, reason, and robustly adapt their knowledge to new
domains. Despite of a long history of research on constructing AI systems with
these abilities, no current AI system is anywhere close to a capability of
forming humanlike abstractions or analogies. This paper reviews the advantages
and limitations of several approaches toward this goal, including symbolic
methods, deep learning, and probabilistic program induction. The paper
concludes with several proposals for designing challenge tasks and evaluation
measures in order to make quantifiable and generalizable progress in this area.

The name of George Augustus Linhart is in fact "widely unknown". In effect,
he was a Viennese-born USA-American physicist-chemist, partially associated
with the Gilbert Newton Lewis' school of thermodynamics at the University of
California in Berkeley. As a lone small boy, he had arrived (from Austria via
Hamburg) at New York in 1896, but was officially USA-naturalized only in 1912.
He was able to pick up English in the streets of New York and Philadelphia,
when occasionally working as a waiter and/or as a tailor - just to somehow
survive. But, nonetheless, he could successfully graduate a high school in
about one year - and then went to the universities for his further education.
After obtaining his BS from the University of Pennsylvania, he could manage
getting both MA and then PhD from the Yale University, Kent Chemical
Laboratory. George Augustus Linhart was afterwards definitely able to
successfully work out the true foundations of thermodynamics and could thus
outdistance many famous thermodynamicists of his time and even the later ones.
Linhart's view of the Second Law of Thermodynamics was and is extremely
fruitful. The interconnection of Linhart's ideas with those of Gilbert Newton
Lewis, as well as with the modern standpoints are discussed here in detail.

Since 2004, I have been collaborating with artist Josiah McElheny on the
design of cosmological sculptures, inspired originally by the chandeliers of
the Metropolitan Opera House in New York. This article describes the science
behind the four works that have emerged from this collaboration to date: An End
to Modernity (2005), The Last Scattering Surface (2006), The End of the Dark
Ages (2008), and Island Universe (2008). These works incorporate idealized
representations of many fundamental aspects of contemporary cosmology,
including expansion of the universe, the last scattering surface, cosmic
microwave background anisotropies, the growth and morphological transformation
of galaxies, the rise and fall of the quasar population, the development of
large scale structure, and the possibility that our universe is one of many
cosmic islands in an eternally inflating multiverse. A companion article
describes the history of the collaboration.

The existence of "Hot Hands" and "Streaks" in sports and gambling is hotly
debated, but there is no uncertainty about the recent batting-average of the
New York Times: it is now two-for-two in mangling and misunderstanding
elementary concepts in probability and statistics; and mixing up the key points
in a recent paper that re-examines earlier work on the statistics of streaks.
In so doing, it's high-visibility articles have added to the general-public's
confusion about probability, making it seem mysterious and paradoxical when it
needn't be. However, those articles make excellent case studies on how to get
it wrong, and for discussions in high-school and college classes focusing on
quantitative reasoning, data analysis, probability and statistics. What I have
written here is intended for that audience.

We present here a simple mathematical model that provides a successful
strategy, quantitatively, to ending the continued championship futility
experienced by Canadian Hockey Teams. Competitive Intransitivity is used here
as a simple predictive framework to capture how investing strategically, under
a uniform salary cap, in just 3 independently variable aspects of the sport
(such as Offence, Defence, and a Goaltender), by just 3 Hockey Teams applying
differing salary priorities (such as Montreal, Boston, and New York), can lead
to rich and perhaps surprisingly unexpected outcomes in play, similar to
rolling intransitive dice together in a series of head-to-head games. A
possibly fortunate conclusion of this analysis is the prediction that for any
Team's chosen strategy (such as New York's), a counter strategy within the same
salary cap can be adopted by a playoff opponent (such as Montreal) which will
prove victorious over a long playoff series, enabling a pathway to end
prolonged championship futility.

I review the effects of magnetic fields on star formation in galaxies. This
includes the effects of the magnetorotational instability (MRI) at galactic
scales, magneto-Jeans and swing instabilities, Parker instabilities, and the
effects of magnetic fields on the evolution of supernova-driven turbulence. I
argue that currently turbulent support by the MRI appears likely to be the most
important of these processes to regulating star formation.

The career and accomplishments of Julian Schwinger, who shared the Nobel
Prize for physics in 1965, have been reviewed in numerous books and articles.
For this reason these Memories, which seek to convey a sense of Schwinger's
remarkable talents as a physicist, concentrate primariy (though not entirely)
on heretofore unpublished pertinent recollections of the youthful Schwinger by
this writer, who first encountered Schwinger in 1934 when they both were
undergraduates at the City College of New York.

A brief history is offered concerning the relation of magnetism to
superconductivity, and the possibility that magnetic correlations are
responsible for certain types of superconductors. A central focus is on high
temperature cuprate superconductivity and the important question of whether its
d-wave pairing is caused by antiferromagnetic or singlet correlations.
Connected with this question is the much debated relation of the pseudogap
phase to the superconducting phase, and whether lattice degrees of freedom are
relevant or not.

Given news articles about an entity, such as a public figure or organization,
timeline summarization (TLS) involves generating a timeline that summarizes the
key events about the entity. However, the TLS task is too underspecified, since
what is of interest to each reader may vary, and hence there is not a single
ideal or optimal timeline. In this paper, we introduce a novel task, called
Constrained Timeline Summarization (CTLS), where a timeline is generated in
which all events in the timeline meet some constraint. An example of a
constrained timeline concerns the legal battles of Tiger Woods, where only
events related to his legal problems are selected to appear in the timeline. We
collected a new human-verified dataset of constrained timelines involving 47
entities and 5 constraints per entity. We propose an approach that employs a
large language model (LLM) to summarize news articles according to a specified
constraint and cluster them to identify key events to include in a constrained
timeline. In addition, we propose a novel self-reflection method during summary
generation, demonstrating that this approach successfully leads to improved
performance.

Modern cities are complex systems, evolving at a fast pace. Thus, many urban
planning, political, and economic decisions require a deep and up-to-date
understanding of the local context of urban neighborhoods. This study shows
that the structure of openly available social media records, such as Twitter,
offers a possibility for building a unique dynamic signature of urban
neighborhood function, and, therefore, might be used as an efficient and simple
decision support tool. Considering New York City as an example, we investigate
how Twitter data can be used to decompose the urban landscape into
self-defining zones, aligned with the functional properties of individual
neighborhoods and their social and economic characteristics. We further explore
the potential of these data for detecting events and evaluating their impact
over time and space. This approach paves a way to a methodology for immediate
quantification of the impact of urban development programs and the estimation
of socioeconomic statistics at a finer spatial-temporal scale, thus allowing
urban policy-makers to track neighborhood transformations and foresee
undesirable changes in order to take early action before official statistics
would be available.

Nowadays, time-stamped web documents related to a general news query floods
spread throughout the Internet, and timeline summarization targets concisely
summarizing the evolution trajectory of events along the timeline. Unlike
traditional document summarization, timeline summarization needs to model the
time series information of the input events and summarize important events in
chronological order. To tackle this challenge, in this paper, we propose a
Unified Timeline Summarizer (UTS) that can generate abstractive and extractive
timeline summaries in time order. Concretely, in the encoder part, we propose a
graph-based event encoder that relates multiple events according to their
content dependency and learns a global representation of each event. In the
decoder part, to ensure the chronological order of the abstractive summary, we
propose to extract the feature of event-level attention in its generation
process with sequential information remained and use it to simulate the
evolutionary attention of the ground truth summary. The event-level attention
can also be used to assist in extracting summary, where the extracted summary
also comes in time sequence. We augment the previous Chinese large-scale
timeline summarization dataset and collect a new English timeline dataset.
Extensive experiments conducted on these datasets and on the out-of-domain
Timeline 17 dataset show that UTS achieves state-of-the-art performance in
terms of both automatic and human evaluations.

Constructing a timeline requires identifying the chronological order of
events in an article. In prior timeline construction datasets, temporal orders
are typically annotated by either event-to-time anchoring or event-to-event
pairwise ordering, both of which suffer from missing temporal information. To
mitigate the issue, we develop a new evaluation dataset, TimeSET, consisting of
single-document timelines with document-level order annotation. TimeSET
features saliency-based event selection and partial ordering, which enable a
practical annotation workload. Aiming to build better automatic timeline
construction systems, we propose a novel evaluation framework to compare
multiple task formulations with TimeSET by prompting open LLMs, i.e., Llama 2
and Flan-T5. Considering that identifying temporal orders of events is a core
subtask in timeline construction, we further benchmark open LLMs on existing
event temporal ordering datasets to gain a robust understanding of their
capabilities. Our experiments show that (1) NLI formulation with Flan-T5
demonstrates a strong performance among others, while (2) timeline construction
and event temporal ordering are still challenging tasks for few-shot LLMs. Our
code and data are available at https://github.com/kimihiroh/timeset.

Fashion is a perpetual topic in human social life, and the mass has the
penchant to emulate what large city residents and celebrities wear. Undeniably,
New York City is such a bellwether large city with all kinds of fashion
leadership. Consequently, to study what the fashion trends are during this
year, it is very helpful to learn the fashion trends of New York City.
Discovering fashion trends in New York City could boost many applications such
as clothing recommendation and advertising. Does the fashion trend in the New
York Fashion Show actually influence the clothing styles on the public? To
answer this question, we design a novel system that consists of three major
components: (1) constructing a large dataset from the New York Fashion Shows
and New York street chic in order to understand the likely clothing fashion
trends in New York, (2) utilizing a learning-based approach to discover fashion
attributes as the representative characteristics of fashion trends, and (3)
comparing the analysis results from the New York Fashion Shows and street-chic
images to verify whether the fashion shows have actual influence on the people
in New York City. Through the preliminary experiments over a large clothing
dataset, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed system, and obtain
useful insights on fashion trends and fashion influence.

The availability of big data on human activity is currently changing the way
we look at our surroundings. With the high penetration of mobile phones, nearly
everyone is already carrying a high-precision sensor providing an opportunity
to monitor and analyze the dynamics of human movement on unprecedented scales.
In this article, we present a technique and visualization tool which uses
aggregated activity measures of mobile networks to gain information about human
activity shaping the structure of the cities. Based on ten months of mobile
network data, activity patterns can be compared through time and space to
unravel the "city's pulse" as seen through the specific signatures of different
locations. Furthermore, the tool allows classifying the neighborhoods into
functional clusters based on the timeline of human activity, providing valuable
insights on the actual land use patterns within the city. This way, the
approach and the tool provide new ways of looking at the city structure from
historical perspective and potentially also in real-time based on dynamic
up-to-date records of human behavior. The online tool presents results for four
global cities: New York, London, Hong Kong and Los Angeles.

Existing timeline generation systems for complex events consider only
information from traditional media, ignoring the rich social context provided
by user-generated content that reveals representative public interests or
insightful opinions. We instead aim to generate socially-informed timelines
that contain both news article summaries and selected user comments. We present
an optimization framework designed to balance topical cohesion between the
article and comment summaries along with their informativeness and coverage of
the event. Automatic evaluations on real-world datasets that cover four complex
events show that our system produces more informative timelines than
state-of-the-art systems. In human evaluation, the associated comment summaries
are furthermore rated more insightful than editor's picks and comments ranked
highly by users.

We estimate the number of street vendors in New York City. We first summarize
the process by which vendors receive licenses and permits to legally operate in
New York City. We then describe a survey that was administered by the Street
Vendor Project while distributing Coronavirus relief aid to vendors operating
in New York City both with and without a license or permit. Finally, we
calculate the total number of vendors using ratio estimation. We find that
approximately 23,000 street vendors operate in New York City: 20,500 mobile
food vendors and 2,300 general merchandise vendors. One third are located in
just six ZIP Codes: 11368 (16%), 11372 (3%), and 11354 (3%) in North and West
Queens and 10036 (5%), 10019 (4%), and 10001 (3%) in the Chelsea and Clinton
neighborhoods of Manhattan. We also provide a theoretical justification of our
estimates based on the theory of point processes and a discussion of their
accuracy and implications. In particular, our estimates suggest the American
Community Survey fails to cover the majority of New York City street vendors.

In the fast-changing realm of information, the capacity to construct coherent
timelines from extensive event-related content has become increasingly
significant and challenging. The complexity arises in aggregating related
documents to build a meaningful event graph around a central topic. This paper
proposes CHRONOS - Causal Headline Retrieval for Open-domain News Timeline
SummarizatiOn via Iterative Self-Questioning, which offers a fresh perspective
on the integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) to tackle the task of
Timeline Summarization (TLS). By iteratively reflecting on how events are
linked and posing new questions regarding a specific news topic to gather
information online or from an offline knowledge base, LLMs produce and refresh
chronological summaries based on documents retrieved in each round.
Furthermore, we curate Open-TLS, a novel dataset of timelines on recent news
topics authored by professional journalists to evaluate open-domain TLS where
information overload makes it impossible to find comprehensive relevant
documents from the web. Our experiments indicate that CHRONOS is not only adept
at open-domain timeline summarization, but it also rivals the performance of
existing state-of-the-art systems designed for closed-domain applications,
where a related news corpus is provided for summarization.

The rapid proliferation of online news has posed significant challenges in
tracking the continuous development of news topics. Traditional timeline
summarization constructs a chronological summary of the events but often lacks
the flexibility to meet the diverse granularity needs. To overcome this
limitation, we introduce a new paradigm, Dynamic-granularity TimELine
Summarization, (DTELS), which aims to construct adaptive timelines based on
user instructions or requirements. This paper establishes a comprehensive
benchmark for DTLES that includes: (1) an evaluation framework grounded in
journalistic standards to assess the timeline quality across four dimensions:
Informativeness, Granular Consistency, Factuality, and Coherence; (2) a
large-scale, multi-source dataset with multiple granularity timeline
annotations based on a consensus process to facilitate authority; (3) extensive
experiments and analysis with two proposed solutions based on Large Language
Models (LLMs) and existing state-of-the-art TLS methods. The experimental
results demonstrate the effectiveness of LLM-based solutions. However, even the
most advanced LLMs struggle to consistently generate timelines that are both
informative and granularly consistent, highlighting the challenges of the DTELS
task.

Despite the wealth of single-cell multi-omics data, it remains challenging to
predict the consequences of novel genetic and chemical perturbations in the
human body. It requires knowledge of molecular interactions at all biological
levels, encompassing disease models and humans. Current machine learning
methods primarily establish statistical correlations between genotypes and
phenotypes but struggle to identify physiologically significant causal factors,
limiting their predictive power. Key challenges in predictive modeling include
scarcity of labeled data, generalization across different domains, and
disentangling causation from correlation. In light of recent advances in
multi-omics data integration, we propose a new artificial intelligence
(AI)-powered biology-inspired multi-scale modeling framework to tackle these
issues. This framework will integrate multi-omics data across biological
levels, organism hierarchies, and species to predict causal
genotype-environment-phenotype relationships under various conditions. AI
models inspired by biology may identify novel molecular targets, biomarkers,
pharmaceutical agents, and personalized medicines for presently unmet medical
needs.

To reduce waste and improve public health and sanitation in New York City,
innovative policies tailored to the city's unique urban landscape are
necessary. The first program we propose is the Dumpster and Compost
Accessibility Program. This program is affordable and utilizes dumpsters placed
near fire hydrants to keep waste off the street without eliminating parking
spaces. It also includes legal changes and the provision of compost bins to
single/two-family households, which together will increase composting rates.
The second program is the Pay-As-You-Throw Program. This requires New Yorkers
living in single/two-family households to purchase stickers for each refuse bag
they have collected by the city, incentivizing them to sort out compostable
waste and recyclables. We conduct a weighted multi-objective optimization to
determine the optimal sticker price based on the City's priorities. Roughly in
proportion to the price, this program will increase diversion rates and
decrease the net costs to New York City's Department of Sanitation. In
conjunction, these two programs will improve NYC's diversion rates, eliminate
garbage bags from the streets, and potentially save New York City money.

Recently, a vast number of scientific publications have been produced in
cities in emerging countries. It has long been observed that the publication
output of Beijing has exceeded that of any other city in the world, including
such leading centres of science as Boston, New York, London, Paris, and Tokyo.
Researchers have suggested that, instead of focusing on cities' total
publication output, the quality of the output in terms of the number of highly
cited papers should be examined. However, in the period from 2014 to 2016,
Beijing produced as many highly cited papers as Boston, London, or New York. In
this paper, I propose another method to measure cities' publishing performance;
I focus on cities' publishing efficiency (i.e., the ratio of highly cited
articles to all articles produced in that city). First, I rank 554 cities based
on their publishing efficiency, then I reveal some general factors influencing
cities' publishing efficiency. The general factors examined in this paper are
as follows: the linguistic environment, cities' economic development level, the
location of excellent organisations, cities' international collaboration
patterns, and the productivity of scientific disciplines.

Timeline generation is of great significance for a comprehensive
understanding of the development of events over time. Its goal is to organize
news chronologically, which helps to identify patterns and trends that may be
obscured when viewing news in isolation, making it easier to track the
development of stories and understand the interrelationships between key
events. Timelines are now common in various commercial products, but academic
research in this area is notably scarce. Additionally, the current datasets are
in need of refinement for enhanced utility and expanded coverage. In this
paper, we propose ETimeline, which encompasses over $13,000$ news articles,
spanning $600$ bilingual timelines across $28$ news domains. Specifically, we
gather a candidate pool of more than $120,000$ news articles and employ the
large language model (LLM) Pipeline to improve performance, ultimately yielding
the ETimeline. The data analysis underscores the appeal of ETimeline.
Additionally, we also provide the news pool data for further research and
analysis. This work contributes to the advancement of timeline generation
research and supports a wide range of tasks, including topic generation and
event relationships. We believe that this dataset will serve as a catalyst for
innovative research and bridge the gap between academia and industry in
understanding the practical application of technology services. The dataset is
available at https://zenodo.org/records/11392212

In this paper we present an approach to extract ordered timelines of events,
their participants, locations and times from a set of multilingual and
cross-lingual data sources. Based on the assumption that event-related
information can be recovered from different documents written in different
languages, we extend the Cross-document Event Ordering task presented at
SemEval 2015 by specifying two new tasks for, respectively, Multilingual and
Cross-lingual Timeline Extraction. We then develop three deterministic
algorithms for timeline extraction based on two main ideas. First, we address
implicit temporal relations at document level since explicit time-anchors are
too scarce to build a wide coverage timeline extraction system. Second, we
leverage several multilingual resources to obtain a single, inter-operable,
semantic representation of events across documents and across languages. The
result is a highly competitive system that strongly outperforms the current
state-of-the-art. Nonetheless, further analysis of the results reveals that
linking the event mentions with their target entities and time-anchors remains
a difficult challenge. The systems, resources and scorers are freely available
to facilitate its use and guarantee the reproducibility of results.

Generating concise summaries of news events is a challenging natural language
processing task. While journalists often curate timelines to highlight key
sub-events, newcomers to a news event face challenges in catching up on its
historical context. In this paper, we address this need by introducing the task
of background news summarization, which complements each timeline update with a
background summary of relevant preceding events. We construct a dataset by
merging existing timeline datasets and asking human annotators to write a
background summary for each timestep of each news event. We establish strong
baseline performance using state-of-the-art summarization systems and propose a
query-focused variant to generate background summaries. To evaluate background
summary quality, we present a question-answering-based evaluation metric,
Background Utility Score (BUS), which measures the percentage of questions
about a current event timestep that a background summary answers. Our
experiments show the effectiveness of instruction fine-tuned systems such as
Flan-T5, in addition to strong zero-shot performance using GPT-3.5.

In this paper, we show a strong correlation between turnstile usage data of
the New York City subway provided by the Metropolitan Transport Authority of
New York City and COVID-19 deaths and cases reported by the New York City
Department of Health. The turnstile usage data not only indicate the usage of
the city's subway but also people's activity that promoted the large prevalence
of COVID-19 city dwellers experienced from March to May of 2020. While this
correlation is apparent, no proof has been provided before. Here we demonstrate
this correlation through the application of a long short-term memory neural
network. We show that the correlation of COVID-19 prevalence and deaths
considers the incubation and symptomatic phases on reported deaths. Having
established this correlation, we estimate the dates when the number of COVID-19
deaths and cases would approach zero after the reported number of deaths were
decreasing by using the Auto-Regressive Integrated Moving Average model. We
also estimate the dates when the first cases and deaths occurred by
back-tracing the data sets and compare them to the reported dates.

New York City faces the challenge of an ever-increasing homeless population
with almost 60,000 people currently living in city shelters. In 2015,
approximately 25% of families stayed longer than 9 months in a shelter, and 17%
of families with children that exited a homeless shelter returned to the
shelter system within 30 days of leaving. This suggests that "long-term"
shelter residents and those that re-enter shelters contribute significantly to
the rise of the homeless population living in city shelters and indicate
systemic challenges to finding adequate permanent housing. Women in Need (Win)
is a non-profit agency that provides shelter to almost 10,000 homeless women
and children (10% of all homeless families of NYC), and is the largest homeless
shelter provider in the City. This paper focuses on our preliminary work with
Win to understand the factors that affect the rate of readmission of homeless
families at Win shelters, and to predict the likelihood of re-entry into the
shelter system on exit. These insights will enable improved service delivery
and operational efficiencies at these shelters. This paper describes our recent
efforts to integrate Win datasets with city records to create a unified,
comprehensive database of the homeless population being served by Win shelters.
A preliminary classification model is developed to predict the odds of
readmission and length of shelter stay based on the demographic and
socioeconomic characteristics of the homeless population served by Win. This
work is intended to form the basis for establishing a network of "smart
shelters" through the use of data science and data technologies.

The constant mean extrinsic curvature on a spacelike slice may constitute a
physically preferred time coordinate, `York time'. One line of enquiry to probe
this idea is to understand processes in our cosmological history in terms of
York time. Following a review of the theoretical motivations, we focus on
slow-roll inflation and the freezing and Hubble re-entry of cosmological
perturbations. We show how the mathematical account of these processes is
distinct from the conventional account in terms of standard cosmological or
conformal time. We also consider the cosmological York-timeline more broadly
and contrast it with the conventional cosmological timeline.

In this paper, we propose a unsupervised framework to reconstruct a person's
life history by creating a chronological list for {\it personal important
events} (PIE) of individuals based on the tweets they published. By analyzing
individual tweet collections, we find that what are suitable for inclusion in
the personal timeline should be tweets talking about personal (as opposed to
public) and time-specific (as opposed to time-general) topics. To further
extract these types of topics, we introduce a non-parametric multi-level
Dirichlet Process model to recognize four types of tweets: personal
time-specific (PersonTS), personal time-general (PersonTG), public
time-specific (PublicTS) and public time-general (PublicTG) topics, which, in
turn, are used for further personal event extraction and timeline generation.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work focused on the generation
of timeline for individuals from twitter data. For evaluation, we have built a
new golden standard Timelines based on Twitter and Wikipedia that contain PIE
related events from 20 {\it ordinary twitter users} and 20 {\it celebrities}.
Experiments on real Twitter data quantitatively demonstrate the effectiveness
of our approach.

The electrocardiogram (ECG) is a ubiquitous diagnostic modality.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) applied towards ECG analysis require large
sample sizes, and transfer learning approaches result in suboptimal performance
when pre-training is done on natural images. We leveraged masked image modeling
to create the first vision-based transformer model, HeartBEiT, for
electrocardiogram waveform analysis. We pre-trained this model on 8.5 million
ECGs and then compared performance vs. standard CNN architectures for diagnosis
of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, low left ventricular ejection fraction and ST
elevation myocardial infarction using differing training sample sizes and
independent validation datasets. We show that HeartBEiT has significantly
higher performance at lower sample sizes compared to other models. Finally, we
also show that HeartBEiT improves explainability of diagnosis by highlighting
biologically relevant regions of the EKG vs. standard CNNs. Thus, we present
the first vision-based waveform transformer that can be used to develop
specialized models for ECG analysis especially at low sample sizes.

[Shortened abstract:] In this thesis we investigate a solution to the
`problem of time' in canonical quantum gravity by splitting spacetime into
surfaces of constant mean curvature parameterised by York time. We argue that
there are reasons to consider York time a viable candidate for a physically
meaningful notion of time. We investigate a number York-time
Hamiltonian-reduced cosmological models and explore some technical aspects,
such as the non-canonical Poisson structure. We develop York-time
Hamiltonian-reduced cosmological perturbation theory by solving the Hamiltonian
constraint perturbatively around a homogeneous background for the physical
(non-vanishing) Hamiltonian that is the momentum conjugate to the York time
parameter. We proceed to canonically quantise the cosmological models and the
perturbation theory and discuss a number of conceptual and technical points,
such as volume eigenfunctions and the absence of a momentum representation due
to the non-standard commutator structure. We propose an alternative,
wavefunction-free method of quantisation based on an ensemble of trajectories
and a dynamical configuration-space geometry and discuss its application to
gravity. We conclude by placing the York-time theories explored in this thesis
in the wider context of a search for a satisfactory theory of quantum gravity.

New York City faces the challenge of an ever-increasing homeless population
with almost 60,000 people currently living in city shelters. In 2015,
approximately 25% of families stayed longer than 9 months in a shelter, and 17%
of families with children that exited a homeless shelter returned to the
shelter system within 30 days of leaving. This suggests that "long-term"
shelter residents and those that re-enter shelters contribute significantly to
the rise of the homeless population living in city shelters and indicate
systemic challenges to finding adequate permanent housing. Women in Need (Win)
is a non-profit agency that provides shelter to almost 10,000 homeless women
and children (10% of all homeless families of NYC), and is the largest homeless
shelter provider in the City. This paper focuses on our preliminary work with
Win to understand the factors that affect the rate of readmission of homeless
families at Win shelters, and to predict the likelihood of re-entry into the
shelter system on exit. These insights will enable improved service delivery
and operational efficiencies at these shelters. This paper describes our recent
efforts to integrate Win datasets with city records to create a unified,
comprehensive database of the homeless population being served by Win shelters.
A preliminary classification model is developed to predict the odds of
readmission and length of shelter stay based on the demographic and
socioeconomic characteristics of the homeless population served by Win. This
work is intended to form the basis for establishing a network of "smart
shelters" through the use of data science and data technologies.

We develop further the approach to derived differential geometry introduced
in Costello's work on the Witten genus. In particular, we introduce several new
examples of L-infinity spaces, discuss vector bundles and shifted symplectic
structures on L-infinity spaces, and examine in some detail the example of
derived loop spaces. This paper is background for a companion paper, in which
we define a quantum field theory on a derived stack, building upon Costello's
definition of an effective field theory.

Since 2004, I have been collaborating with artist Josiah McElheny on the
design of cosmological sculptures, inspired originally by the chandeliers of
the Metropolitan Opera House in New York. This article describes the science
behind the four works that have emerged from this collaboration to date: An End
to Modernity (2005), The Last Scattering Surface (2006), The End of the Dark
Ages (2008), and Island Universe (2008). These works incorporate idealized
representations of many fundamental aspects of contemporary cosmology,
including expansion of the universe, the last scattering surface, cosmic
microwave background anisotropies, the growth and morphological transformation
of galaxies, the rise and fall of the quasar population, the development of
large scale structure, and the possibility that our universe is one of many
cosmic islands in an eternally inflating multiverse. A companion article
describes the history of the collaboration.

Despite the wealth of single-cell multi-omics data, it remains challenging to
predict the consequences of novel genetic and chemical perturbations in the
human body. It requires knowledge of molecular interactions at all biological
levels, encompassing disease models and humans. Current machine learning
methods primarily establish statistical correlations between genotypes and
phenotypes but struggle to identify physiologically significant causal factors,
limiting their predictive power. Key challenges in predictive modeling include
scarcity of labeled data, generalization across different domains, and
disentangling causation from correlation. In light of recent advances in
multi-omics data integration, we propose a new artificial intelligence
(AI)-powered biology-inspired multi-scale modeling framework to tackle these
issues. This framework will integrate multi-omics data across biological
levels, organism hierarchies, and species to predict causal
genotype-environment-phenotype relationships under various conditions. AI
models inspired by biology may identify novel molecular targets, biomarkers,
pharmaceutical agents, and personalized medicines for presently unmet medical
needs.

The formulation of the initial value problem for the Einstein equations is at
the heart of obtaining interesting new solutions using numerical relativity and
still very much under theoretical and applied scrutiny. We develop a
specialised background geometry approach, for systems where there is
non-trivial a priori knowledge about the spacetime under study. The background
three-geometry and associated connection are used to express the ADM evolution
equations in terms of physical non-linear deviations from that background.
Expressing the equations in first order form leads naturally to a system
closely linked to the Einstein-Christoffel system, introduced by Anderson and
York, and sharing its hyperbolicity properties. We illustrate the drastic
alteration of the source structure of the equations, and discuss why this is
likely to be numerically advantageous.

The Drift-Diffusion Model (DDM) is widely used in neuropsychological studies
to understand the decision process by incorporating both reaction times and
subjects' responses. Various models have been developed to estimate DDM
parameters, with some employing Bayesian inference. However, when examining
associations between phenotypes of interest and DDM parameters, most studies
adopt a two-step approach: first estimating DDM parameters, then applying a
separate statistical model to the estimated values. Despite the potential for
bias, this practice remains common, primarily due to researchers' unfamiliarity
with Bayesian modeling. To address this issue, this tutorial presents the
implementations and advantages of fitting a unified Bayesian hierarchical
regression model that integrates trial-level drift-diffusion modeling and
subject-level regression between DDM parameters and other variables. The R
package RegDDM, developed and demonstrated in this tutorial, facilitates this
integrated modeling approach.

Fashion is a perpetual topic in human social life, and the mass has the
penchant to emulate what large city residents and celebrities wear. Undeniably,
New York City is such a bellwether large city with all kinds of fashion
leadership. Consequently, to study what the fashion trends are during this
year, it is very helpful to learn the fashion trends of New York City.
Discovering fashion trends in New York City could boost many applications such
as clothing recommendation and advertising. Does the fashion trend in the New
York Fashion Show actually influence the clothing styles on the public? To
answer this question, we design a novel system that consists of three major
components: (1) constructing a large dataset from the New York Fashion Shows
and New York street chic in order to understand the likely clothing fashion
trends in New York, (2) utilizing a learning-based approach to discover fashion
attributes as the representative characteristics of fashion trends, and (3)
comparing the analysis results from the New York Fashion Shows and street-chic
images to verify whether the fashion shows have actual influence on the people
in New York City. Through the preliminary experiments over a large clothing
dataset, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed system, and obtain
useful insights on fashion trends and fashion influence.

Imaging atmospheric Cherenkov telescope (IACT) arrays record images from air
showers initiated by gamma rays entering the atmosphere, allowing astrophysical
sources to be observed at very high energies. To maximize IACT sensitivity,
gamma-ray showers must be efficiently distinguished from the dominant
background of cosmic-ray showers using images from multiple telescopes. A
combination of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with a recurrent neural
network (RNN) has been proposed to perform this task. Using CTLearn, an open
source Python package using deep learning to analyze data from IACTs, with
simulated data from the upcoming Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA), we implement
a CNN-RNN network and find no evidence that sorting telescope images by total
amplitude improves background rejection performance.

This paper presents the results of a benefit-cost analysis involving the
application of battery energy storage systems (BESS) for three of New York
State's municipal electric departments (MEDs). New York's municipal electric
utilities generally have allocations to receive hydroelectric energy from the
New York Power Authority (NYPA). When the NYPA firm hydro allocation is
exceeded, the utility must procure energy from other sources, generally at
significantly higher prices. Additionally, the municipal utility pays to
transmit the energy from the generation source to the utility gateway. There
are multiple ways that these MED's can use energy storage technology to reduce
their costs. This paper develops benefit and cost analyses, and concludes that
BESS technology is cost-effective in some cases, and will become more
cost-effective in the future as battery prices decrease.

The chapter presents foundations of computing paradigms for realizing
emerging IoT applications, especially fog and edge computing, their background,
characteristics, architectures and open challenges.

A novel approach to reduce bulk conductance by the use of short period
superlattices (SL) of two alternating topological insulator layers is
presented. Evidence for a superlattice gap enhancement (SGE) was obtained from
the observed reduction of bulk background doping by more than one order of
magnitude, from 1.2x1020 cm-3 to 8.5x1018 cm-3 as the period of Bi2Se3/Sb2Te3
SLs is decreased from 12 nm to 5 nm, respectively. Tight binding calculations
show that in the very thin period regime, a significant SGE can be achieved by
the appropriate choice of materials. The ultrathin SL of alternating Bi2Se3 and
Sb2Te3 layers behaves as a new designer material with a bulk bandgap as much as
60% larger than the bandgap of the constituent layer with the largest bandgap,
while retaining topological surface features. Analysis of the weak
antilocalization (WAL) cusp evident in the low temperature magneto-conductance
of a very thin period SL sample grown confirms that the top and bottom surfaces
of the SL structure behave as Dirac surface states. This approach represents a
promising and yet to be explored platform for building truly insulating bulk
TIs.

Interactive technologies are getting closer to our bodies and permeate the
infrastructure of our homes. While such technologies offer many benefits, they
can also cause an initial feeling of unease in users. It is important for
Human-Computer Interaction to manage first impressions and avoid designing
technologies that appear creepy. To that end, we developed the Perceived
Creepiness of Technology Scale (PCTS), which measures how creepy a technology
appears to a user in an initial encounter with a new artefact. The scale was
developed based on past work on creepiness and a set of ten focus groups
conducted with users from diverse backgrounds. We followed a structured process
of analytically developing and validating the scale. The PCTS is designed to
enable designers and researchers to quickly compare interactive technologies
and ensure that they do not design technologies that produce initial feelings
of creepiness in users.

We give a complete and consistent formal interpretation of the modal logic of
Aristotle as developped in his analytics.

The supporting worldsheet of a string, membrane, or other higher dimensional
brane, is analysed in terms of its first, second, and third fundamental
tensors, and its inner and outer curvature tensors. The dynamical equations
governing the models appropriate for phenomena such as (superconducting) cosmic
strings and cosmic domain walls are developed in a general framework (allowing
for both electromagnetic and Kalb Ramond background coupling). It is shown how
the surface stress momentum energy density tensor determines the propagation
characteristics of small ``wiggle" perturbations of the worldsheet. Attention
is then focussed on special features of strings (using the transonic model with
tension T inversely proportional to the energy density U as a particularly
important example). A quadratic Hamilton-Jacobi formulation is shown to govern
equilibium states and other conservative string configurations sharing a
symmetry of the (gravitational, electromagnetic, and Kalb-Ramond) background,
including stable ring states that may be cosmologically important.

The low energy neutral excitations of incompressible fractional quantum Hall
states are called collective modes or magnetic excitons. This work develops
techniques for computing their dispersion at general filling fractions for
reasonably large systems. New structure is revealed; in particular, the
collective mode at 1/3 is found to possess several minima, with the energy of
the principal minimum significantly smaller than the earlier estimate.
\pacs{73.40.Hm, 73.20.Dx, 73.20.Mf}

We describe the occurrence and physical role of zero-energy modes in the
Dirac equation with a topologically non-trivial background.

This work approaches human chromosome mapping by developing algorithms for
ordering markers associated with radiation hybrid data. Motivated by recent
work of Boehnke et al. [1], we formulate the ordering problem by developing
stochastic spin models to search for minimum-break marker configurations. As a
particular application, the methods developed are applied to 14 human
chromosome-21 markers tested by Cox et al. [2]. The methods generate
configurations consistent with the best found by others. Additionally, we find
that the set of low-lying configurations is described by a Markov-like ordering
probability distribution. The distribution displays cluster correlations
reflecting closely linked loci.

We give an account of the construction of exterior differential systems based
on the notion of tableaux over Lie algebras as developed in [Comm. Anal. Geom
14 (2006), 475-496; math.DG/0412169]. The definition of a tableau over a Lie
algebra is revisited and extended in the light of the formalism of the Spencer
cohomology; the question of involutiveness for the associated systems and their
prolongations is addressed; examples are discussed.

Derek Stadler (2017). NewYorkCity'sSilverJubilee: APoliticalHistory. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2017.0022

Unknown Author (2020). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2020.0028

Unknown Author (2022). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2022.0000

Unknown Author (2022). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2022.0036

Unknown Author (2019). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2019.0010

Alan Singer (2018). Reconstruction Era New York State Democrats: Deserving the Execration of History. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2018.0003

Unknown Author (2018). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2018.0044

Unknown Author (2021). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2021.0016

Unknown Author (2018). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2018.0012

Unknown Author (2016). In Memoriam: Dr. Gary S. Dunbar, 84 Member, Editorial Board, New York History, 19972005. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2016.0001

Unknown Author (2021). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2021.0034

R. Douglas Hurt (2016). The Agricultural and Rural History of New York: A Selected Bibliography. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2016.0036

Unknown Author (2017). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2017.0033

Debra Jackson (2017). Tattooed New York at The New-York Historical Society: Exhibition on view Spring 2017. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2017.0032

Kenneth Florey (2017). Postcards and the New York Suffrage Movement. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2017.0006

Unknown Author (2017). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2017.0048

Alisa Wade (2020). Teach NY: New York City's Female Founders. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2020.0010

Unknown Author (2018). Contributor. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2018.0026

Unknown Author (2016). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2016.0027

Unknown Author (2020). Contributors. New York History. https://doi.org/10.1353/nyh.2020.0000

Peter W. Milonni, Michael Martin Nieto (2009). Coherent States. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/0903.5096v1

Melvyn B. Nathanson (2018). The Erdos Paradox. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1812.11935v1

Herbert Lichtenegger, Bahram Mashhoon (2004). Mach's Principle. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/physics/0407078v2

Akhil Vaid, Joy Jiang, Ashwin Sawant, Stamatios Lerakis, Edgar Argulian, Yuri Ahuja, Joshua Lampert, Alexander Charney, Hayit Greenspan, Benjamin Glicksberg, Jagat Narula, Girish Nadkarni (2022). HeartBEiT: Vision Transformer for Electrocardiogram Data Improves Diagnostic Performance at Low Sample Sizes. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2212.14040v1

Mark Steinberger (1997). Electronic Mathematics Journals. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/9708203v1

D. Lynden-Bell (1998). From Quasars to Extraordinary N-body Problems. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/astro-ph/9812092v1

Philipp Roser, Antony Valentini (2016). Cosmological history in York time: inflation and perturbations. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1606.01801v1

Geoff Boeing (2021). We Live in a Motorized Civilization: Robert Moses Replies to Robert Caro. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.06179v1

You Wu, Lei Xie (2024). AI-driven multi-omics integration for multi-scale predictive modeling of causal genotype-environment-phenotype relationships. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.06405v1

Joel Lebowitz, Luisa Bonolis (2017). A Life in Statistical Mechanics. Part 1: From Chedar in Taceva, to Yeshiva University in New York. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1702.04810v1

KuanTing Chen, Kezhen Chen, Peizhong Cong, Winston H. Hsu, Jiebo Luo (2015). Who are the Devils Wearing Prada in New York City?. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1508.04785v1

Juan Luis Vzquez (2021). Remembering Louis Nirenberg and his mathematics. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.10149v2

Melanie Mitchell (2021). Abstraction and Analogy-Making in Artificial Intelligence. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2102.10717v2

E. B. Starikov (2011). George Augustus Linhart - as a "widely unknown" thermodynamicist. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1110.6352v1

David H. Weinberg (2010). From the Big Bang to the Multiverse: Translations in Space and Time. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1006.1012v1

Dan Gusfield (2015). Hot Hands, Streaks and Coin-flips: Numerical Nonsense in the New York Times. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.08773v1

C. J. Barrett, S. Koumarianos, O. Mermut (2021). How a Losing Team like the Canadiens can Steal a Stanley Cup: A Quantitative Intransitive Hockey Analysis. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.13472v2

Mordecai-Mark Mac Low (2008). Magnetic Effects in Global Star Formation. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/0804.2278v1

Edward Gerjuoy (2014). Memories of Julian Schwinger. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1412.1410v1

M. R. Norman (2006). High Temperature Superconductivity - Magnetic Mechanisms. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/cond-mat/0609559v1

Unknown Author (1999). Gotham: a history of New York City to 1898. https://openalex.org/W2319052122

David C. Hammack, Edwin G. Burrows, Mike Wallace (2000). Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898. https://openalex.org/W1502226749

Michelle Press (2009). Mannahatta: A natural history of new york city.. https://openalex.org/W2902154603

Unknown Author (1994). Natural History in New York. https://openalex.org/W2294024755

Robert V. Wells, Ira Rosenwalke (1973). Population History of New York City. https://openalex.org/W2088584464

Ray Bert (2006). Book Review: The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century by Thomas L. Friedman. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2005. https://openalex.org/W918885930

Amelia Jones (2004). Irrational Modernism: A Neurasthenic History of New York Dada. https://openalex.org/W642971928

Eric W. Sanderson, Markley H. Boyer (2009). Mannahatta : a natural history of New York City. https://openalex.org/W590882036

Victor W. Shapiro, Ira Rosenwaike (1973). Population History of New York City. https://openalex.org/W4244482868

Milton M. Klein (2002). The Empire State: a history of New York. https://openalex.org/W597936221

Clarke, John E. Mason (2014). Early Devonic History of New York and Eastern North America. https://openalex.org/W616996644

Unknown Author (2010). Annals of The Lyceum of Natural History of New York. https://openalex.org/W4238290703

Lewis C. Beck, James E. De Kay, Ebenezer Emmon, Ebenezer Emmons, Jim W. Hall, J. W. Hill, W. W. Mather, John G. Torrey, Lardner Vanuxem (1842). Natural history of New York. https://openalex.org/W4300630852

Penelope Deutscher (1998). BOOK REVIEW: Luce Irigaray. Translated by Alison Martin.<b>I LOVE TO YOU: SKETCH FOR A FELICITY WITHIN HISTORY</b>. New York: Routledge, 1996.. https://openalex.org/W2069765637

Unknown Author (1995). All the nations under heaven: an ethnic and racial history of New York City. https://openalex.org/W4300097698

Mara Antonia lvarez (1996). RESEA de : Venuti, Lawrence. The Translator's Invisibility : A History qf Translation. London; New York : Routledge, 1995. https://openalex.org/W1590029055

Bruce P. Frohnen (1991). History and Progress: In Search of the European and American Mind. By Margarita Mathiopoulos. New York: Praeger, 1989. 460p. $49.95.. https://openalex.org/W2076770939

William L. Stone (2010). History of New York City, from the Discovery to the Present Day. https://openalex.org/W583645744

Wallace D. Bowman, George Lamb, John Kieran (1960). A Natural History of New York City. https://openalex.org/W2319120428

Unknown Author (1842). Natural history of New York. https://openalex.org/W4210972614

Unknown Author (None). Appendix:. City of Debtors. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctvgd2mh.12

Unknown Author (2025). Appendix A. How to Be Disabled in a Pandemic. https://doi.org/10.18574/nyu/9781479830909.003.0021

Unknown Author (2001). Timeline of Key Events in SERM Development. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb04047.x

Mintaek Lee (None). Trend and Return Level of Extreme Snow Events in New York City. https://doi.org/10.18122/b2tt4v

 (1999). The SNP timeline: Looking back, looking ahead: Key events in the development of Mental Health Special Need Plans. PsycEXTRA Dataset. https://doi.org/10.1037/e332802004-002

Clarence Taylor (2011). Racial Events, Diplomacy, and Dinkins's Image. Civil Rights in New York City. https://doi.org/10.5422/fordham/9780823232895.003.0010

Unknown Author (None). Chiapan Timeline of Events: 1975 - 1995. https://doi.org/10.3998/mpub.11413696.cmp.13

Unknown Author (2025). Dorothy Parker Timeline. Dorothy Parker's New York. https://doi.org/10.2307/jj.31663494.12

Unknown Author (None). Chiapan Timeline of Events: 1960 - 1975. https://doi.org/10.3998/mpub.11413696.cmp.12

Unknown Author (2025). Dorothy Parker Timeline. Dorothy Parker's New York. https://doi.org/10.1515/9798855802368-010

Unknown Author (2010). Timeline of Significant Events. Babylon of Egypt. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctt15m7hfq.6

Unknown Author (2010). 1. The Long Sweep and Big Events. Murder in New York City. https://doi.org/10.1525/9780520924291-004

Unknown Author (2018). Timeline. Women Will Vote. https://doi.org/10.7591/9781501713200-002

Unknown Author (2022). 8. Orgies and Swinger Events. The Soft City. https://doi.org/10.7312/will17794-009

Jamie Sayen (2023). Timeline of Events. Children of the Northern Forest. https://doi.org/10.12987/yale/9780300270570.002.0010

Unknown Author (2008). Timeline of Important Events in the History of Manassas Park City Schools. The Little School System That Could. https://doi.org/10.2307/jj.18252983.5

Unknown Author (None). New York  Global City?. New York, New York!. https://doi.org/10.3726/978-3-653-05211-4/20

Unknown Author (2022). February 17, 2015:. The Spirit of New York, Second Edition. https://doi.org/10.2307/jj.18255345.23

Unknown Author (2008). Timeline of Important Events in the History of Manassas Park City Schools. The Little School System That Could. https://doi.org/10.1515/9780791478639-003

Unknown Author (2014). Effective Planning for Major Events and Incidents: Examining the New York City Police Department Protocols and Guidelines. Policing Major Events. https://doi.org/10.1201/b17692-19

Muhammad Reza Qorib, Qisheng Hu, Hwee Tou Ng (2024). Just What You Desire: Constrained Timeline Summarization with Self-Reflection for Enhanced Relevance. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2412.17408v1

Philipp Kats, Cheng Qian, Constantine Kontokosta, Stanislav Sobolevsky (2017). Twitter Activity Timeline as a Signature of Urban Neighborhood. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.06122v1

Xiuying Chen, Mingzhe Li, Shen Gao, Zhangming Chan, Dongyan Zhao, Xin Gao, Xiangliang Zhang, Rui Yan (2023). Follow the Timeline! Generating Abstractive and Extractive Timeline Summary in Chronological Order. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.00867v1

Kimihiro Hasegawa, Nikhil Kandukuri, Susan Holm, Yukari Yamakawa, Teruko Mitamura (2024). Formulation Comparison for Timeline Construction using LLMs. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.00990v1

Dniel Kondor, Pierrick Thebault, Sebastian Grauwin, Istvn Gdor, Simon Moritz, Stanislav Sobolevsky, Carlo Ratti (2015). Visualizing signatures of human activity in cities across the globe. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1509.00459v1

Lu Wang, Claire Cardie, Galen Marchetti (2016). Socially-Informed Timeline Generation for Complex Events. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1606.05699v1

Jonathan Auerbach (2024). Estimating the Number of Street Vendors in New York City. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.00527v5

Weiqi Wu, Shen Huang, Yong Jiang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, Hai Zhao (2025). Unfolding the Headline: Iterative Self-Questioning for News Retrieval and Timeline Summarization. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2501.00888v1

Chenlong Zhang, Tong Zhou, Pengfei Cao, Zhuoran Jin, Yubo Chen, Kang Liu, Jun Zhao (2024). DTELS: Towards Dynamic Granularity of Timeline Summarization. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.09297v1

Steven DiSilvio, Anthony Ozerov, Leon Zhou (2023). Sorting Out New York City's Trash Problem. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.16585v1

Gyorgy Csomos (2018). Factors Influencing Cities' Publishing Efficiency. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1805.03423v1

Xiaochen Liu, Yanan Zhang (2025). ETimeline: An Extensive Timeline Generation Dataset based on Large Language Model. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.07474v1

Egoitz Laparra, Rodrigo Agerri, Itziar Aldabe, German Rigau (2017). Multilingual and Cross-lingual Timeline Extraction. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1702.00700v1

Adithya Pratapa, Kevin Small, Markus Dreyer (2023). Background Summarization of Event Timelines. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.16197v1

Sina Fathi-Kazerooni, Roberto Rojas-Cessa, Ziqian Dong, Vatcharapan Umpaichitra (2020). Time Series Analysis and Correlation of Subway Turnstile Usage and COVID-19 Prevalence in New York City. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2008.08156v2

Constantine Kontokosta, Boyeong Hong, Awais Malik, Ira M. Bellach, Xueqi Huang, Kristi Korsberg, Dara Perl, Avikal Somvanshi (2017). Predictors of Re-admission for Homeless Families in New York City: The Case of the Win Shelter Network. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.06905v1

Jiwei Li, Claire Cardie (2013). Timeline Generation: Tracking individuals on Twitter. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1309.7313v3

Unknown Author (None). The Background:. Irish Immigrants in New York City, 1945-1995. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctt20060pn.5

O.V. Rattigan, A.C. Carpenter, K.L. Civerolo, H.D. Felton (2020). Pollutant measurements at near road and urban background sites in New York, USA. Atmospheric Pollution Research. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apr.2020.01.014

Meta F. Janowitz, Diane Dallal (2013). Africans in New York, Historical Background. Tales of Gotham, Historical Archaeology, Ethnohistory and Microhistory of New York City. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4614-5272-0_8

Gabriel Rhodes, Stephen Sullivan (None). A Reflection of New York City History  the Pushcarts Economic Impacts, Social and National Background, and Sustainability in New York City From 18901940. https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4943585

Jordon D. Loucks (2020). Chapter 4 Historical Context and Background for Subregions of New York State. An Archaeology of Ethnicity, Race, and Consumption in New York. https://doi.org/10.5771/9781793611765-75

Unknown Author (1983). Background of the Puerto Rican Migration to New York City. From Colonia to Community. https://doi.org/10.5040/9798400654367.ch-002

TRUSTEES OF COLUMBIA UNIV  NEW YORK (1996). Magnetic Background Survey for UXO and Mine Detection. https://doi.org/10.21236/ada396190

M. Maiello (1994). Long-term TLD measurements of environmental background radiation in the New York City Area. https://doi.org/10.2172/105677

Unknown Author (1967). HISTORICAL BACKGROUND. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1749-6632.1967.tb35948.x

Unknown Author (2015). The Religious Background. Upstate Cauldron. https://doi.org/10.2307/jj.18253825.5

Unknown Author (2015). The Historical Background. Upstate Cauldron. https://doi.org/10.2307/jj.18253825.4

Jack D. Barchas (2010). Background and acknowledgments. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05794.x

Unknown Author (1932). Chapter II. The Social Background. New York in the Critical Period. 17831789. https://doi.org/10.7312/spau92150-006

Unknown Author (2015). The Historical Background. Upstate Cauldron. https://doi.org/10.1515/9781438455969-002

Unknown Author (2015). The Religious Background. Upstate Cauldron. https://doi.org/10.1515/9781438455969-003

Richard L. Riley (1980). HISTORICAL BACKGROUND. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1749-6632.1980.tb18900.x

Unknown Author (2019). 2. Development in the New York Region. New York. https://doi.org/10.1525/9780520906891-008

Unknown Author (2017). Chapter 1. Background and Purpose. Air Pollutant Deposition and Its Effects on Natural Resources in New York State. https://doi.org/10.7591/9781501700811-007

, Garima Siwach (None). Impact of employment barriers on individuals with criminal records : an econometric evaluation of criminal background checks in New York. https://doi.org/10.54014/96d8-fcsk

Charlie Gentile (2014). Part I: THE BACKGROUND. The 1928 New York Yankees. https://doi.org/10.5771/9781442235991-1

Philipp Roser (2016). Gravitation and cosmology with York time. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.03942v1

Ryan Grady, Owen Gwilliam (2014). L-infinity spaces and derived loop spaces. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1404.5426v3

Philippos Papadopoulos, Carlos F. Sopuerta (2001). Evolution systems for non-linear perturbations of background geometries. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/gr-qc/0107051v2

Zekai Jin, Yaakov Stern, Seonjoo Lee (2025). Bayesian Regression Analysis with the Drift-Diffusion Model. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2507.01177v1

Aryeh Brill, Qi Feng, T. Brian Humensky, Bryan Kim, Daniel Nieto, Tjark Miener (2020). Investigating a Deep Learning Method to Analyze Images from Multiple Gamma-ray Telescopes. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.03602v1

T. Ortmeyer, T. Vu (2021). Energy Storage Peak Shaving Feasibility: Case Studies in Upstate New York. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2107.14146v1

Chii Chang, Satish Narayana Srirama, Rajkumar Buyya (2018). Internet of Things (IoT) and New Computing Paradigms. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1812.00591v1

Ido Levy, Cody Youmans, Thor Garcia, Haiming Deng, Steven Alsheimer, Christophe Testelin, Lia Krusin-Elbaum, Pouyan Ghaemi, Maria Tamargo (2020). Designer topological insulator with enhanced gap and suppressed bulk conduction in Bi2Se3/Sb2Te3 ultra-short period superlattices. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.03084v1

Pawe W. Woniak, Jakob Karolus, Florian Lang, Caroline Eckherth, Johannes Schning, Yvonne Rogers, Jasmin Niess (2021). Creepy Technology: What Is It and How Do You Measure It?. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/2102.07470v1

Holger Brenner (2002). Eine vollstaendige Formalisierung der Aristotelischen Notwendigkeitssyllogistik. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0209372v1

Brandon Carter (1996). Dynamics of Cosmic Strings and other Brane models. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/hep-th/9611054v1

R. K. Kamilla, X. G. Wu, J. K. Jain (1995). Composite fermion theory of collective excitations in fractional quantum Hall effect. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/cond-mat/9511136v1

R. Jackiw (2011). Fractional and Majorana Fermions: The Physics of Zero Energy Modes. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/1104.4486v1

C. T. Falk, H. Falk (1995). Chromosome mapping: radiation hybrid data and stochastic spin models. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/adap-org/9506004v1

Emilio Musso, Lorenzo Nicolodi (2007). Differential systems associated with tableaux over Lie algebras. arXiv preprint. http://arxiv.org/pdf/0705.2715v1

Seth Arsenian (1937). Bilingualism and mental development : a study of the intelligence and the social background of bilingual children in New York City. https://openalex.org/W1488743881

Stanley T. Lewis (1953). The New York theatre : its background and architectural development, 1750-1853 (volumes 1 and 2) /. https://openalex.org/W2741845542

Charles A. Bacarisse (2004). Background to Revolution, the Development of Modern Cuba. By Robert Freeman Smith, editor. [Borzoi Books on Latin America.] (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1966. Pp. 224, $2.50.). https://openalex.org/W2344103690

John H. Esterline (1949). SOVIET LEGAL THEORY, ITS SOCIAL BACKGROUND AND DEVELOPMENT. By Rudolf Schlesinger. New York: Oxford University Press, 1945.. https://openalex.org/W2206873282

Donald Axelrod (1967). Government covers the waterfront : an administrative study of the background, origin, development, and effectiveness of the bistate Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, 1953-1966. https://openalex.org/W105754748

Otto Klineberg (1941). <i>Bilingualism and Mental Development: A Study of the Intelligence and the Social Background of Bilingual Children in New York City.</i>Seth Arsenian. https://openalex.org/W2516229840

Carol A. Chapelle (1998). <b>THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE IELTS: A STUDY OF THE EFFECT OF BACKGROUND KNOWLEDGE ON READING COMPREHENSION.</b><i>Caroline Clapham.</i> New York: Cambridge University Press, 1996. Pp. xiii + 303. $52.95 cloth, $26.95 paper.. https://openalex.org/W2113233206

Kimball Young (1933). KARPF, FAY BERGER. American Social Psychology: Its Origins, Development, and European Background. Pp. xvii, 461. New York: McGraw-Hill Com pany, 1932. $3.50. https://openalex.org/W2083241737

Robert W. Schleck (1953). Book Reviews: Germany in Power and Eclipse: The Background of German Development. By JAMES KERR POLLOCK and HOMER THOMAS. (New York: D. Van Nostrand Co. 1952. Pp. viii, 661. $10.00.). https://openalex.org/W2092182259

Michael Gamarnikow (1973). Economic Reforms in Eastern Europe: Political Background and Economic Significance. By Radoslav Selucky. Translated by Zdenek Elias. Praeger Special Studies in International Economics and Development. New York, Washington, London: Praeger Publishers, 1972. x, 179 pp. $15.00.. https://openalex.org/W2586966595

Charles S. Ascher (1951). SMITH, G. E. KIDDER. Sweden Builds: Its Modern Architecture and Land Policy, Background, Development, and Con tribution. Pp. 279; 683 photographs and drawings. New York and Stock holm : Bonniers, 1950. $8.50. https://openalex.org/W2042630876

Unknown Author (1954). Germany in Power and Eclipse: The Background of German Development. By James K. Pollock and Homer Thomas with the Assistance and Collaboration of Willett F. Ramsdell, Wm. Clark Trow, and Manfred C. Vernon. (New York: D. Van Nostrand Company. 1952. Pp. viii, 661. $10.00.). https://openalex.org/W4210717922

Philipp Nickel (1984). Handbook of Experimental Pharmacology, Vol. 68, Part 1: Antimalarial Drugs 1, Biological Background, Experimental Methods, and Drug Resistance, Eds.: W. Peters, and W. H. G. Richards, 93 figs. XVIII, 484 pages, price DM 370, ; <b>Part 2:</b> Antimalarial Drugs 2, Current Antimalarials and New Drug Developments, Eds.: W. Peters and W. H. G. Richards, 150 figs. XVIII, 520 pages, price DM 390,, SpringerVerlag, Berlin  Heidelberg  New York  Tokyo 1984. https://openalex.org/W1990273935

Unknown Author (1953). Germany in Power and Eclipse: The Background of German Development. By &lt;italic&gt;James K. Pollock&lt;/italic&gt;, James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science, University of Michigan, and &lt;italic&gt;Homer Thomas&lt;/italic&gt;, University of Missouri. (New York: D. Van Nostrand Company. 1952. Pp. viii, 661. $10.00.). https://openalex.org/W2948985602